[docs] SOFA Robotics without Emio Labs (#9)
SofaComplianceRobotics/docs-support: docs/Developers/sofa-robotics-without-emio-labs.md

---
title: SOFA Robotics w/o Emio Labs
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# SOFA Robotics without Emio Labs

This guide provides instructions for using SOFA Robotics independently of the Emio Labs application.

:::warning

> To use SOFA Robotics independently of Emio Labs, you first need to download the appropriate package for your operating system. This package may come as an installer (`.deb` for Linux, `.msi` for Windows, or `.dmg` for MacOS) or as a compressed archive (`.zip`). It is important to note that portable formats, which run from a temporary directory, are not supported. Ensure you extract or install the package to a permanent location on your system before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To use SOFA Robotics independently of Emio Labs, you first need to download the appropriate Emio Labs package for your operating system. This package may come as an installer (`.deb` for Linux, `.msi` for Windows, or `.dmg` for MacOS) or as a compressed archive (`.zip`). 
- It is important to note that portable formats (`.AppImage` for Linux, `.exe` for Windows, `.app` for MacOS), which run from a temporary directory, are **not** supported. 
- Ensure you extract or install the package to a permanent location on your system before proceeding.
```

:::

## Locate the SOFA Robotics Directory and Executable

> Begin by locating the SOFA Robotics directory and executable file, typically named `runSofa` (or `runSofa.exe` on Windows). Follow the instructions below depending on your chosen format: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the paths to the SOFA Robotics directory and executable, follow the instructions below depending on your chosen package format: 
```

<Tabs className="unique-tabs">
  <TabItem value="installer" label="Installer" default>
      1. Locate the directory where you installed the Emio Labs application. We will refer to this directory as `PATH_TO_EMIO_LABS`. 

>       2. Within this directory, you will find the SOFA Robotics directory at `PATH_TO_EMIO_LABS/assets/resources/sofa`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. Within this directory, you will find the SOFA Robotics directory at `PATH_TO_EMIO_LABS/resources/sofa`. 
```

>       3. Inside this directory, you will find the `bin` subdirectory, which contains the executable file required to run the software. This executable is essential for launching SOFA Robotics independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      3. Inside this directory, you will find the `bin` subdirectory, which contains the executable file required to run the software. This executable is essential for launching SOFA Robotics independently.
      
      :::tip
      - A typical path example when you installed Emio Labs on Windows using the `.msi` installer is `C:\Users\YOUR_USERNAME\AppData\Local\Programs\emio-labs`
      - A typical example on Linux when you used the `.deb` installer is `/opt/emio-labs`
      :::
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="archive" label="Compressed Archive">
      1. Extract the compressed archive to your chosen location (referred to as `PATH_TO_EMIO_LABS`).

>       2. Within this directory, you will find the SOFA Robotics directory at `PATH_TO_EMIO_LABS/assets/resources/sofa`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. Within this directory, you will find the SOFA Robotics directory at `PATH_TO_EMIO_LABS/resources/sofa`. 
```

        export PYTHONPATH=$SOFA_ROOT\bin\python\lib\python3.10\site-packages
        export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$SOFA_ROOT\plugins\SofaPython3\lib\python3\site-packages
        ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">
        #### Using Powershell:

        ```powershell
        $env.SOFA_ROOT=PATH_TO_SOFA_ROBOTICS_DIR
        $env.PATH+=$env.SOFA_ROOT\bin
        $env.PYTHONHOME=$env.SOFA_ROOT\bin\python
        $env.PYTHONPATH=$env.SOFA_ROOT\bin\python\Lib\site-packages
        $env.PYTHONPATH+=$env.SOFA_ROOT\plugins\SofaPython3\lib\python3\site-packages
        ```

        #### Using Command Prompt:

        ```bash
        set SOFA_ROOT=PATH_TO_SOFA_ROBOTICS_DIR
        set PATH=$PATH:$SOFA_ROOT\bin
        set PYTHONHOME=$SOFA_ROOT\bin\python
        set PYTHONPATH=$SOFA_ROOT\bin\python\Lib\site-packages
        set PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$SOFA_ROOT\plugins\SofaPython3\lib\python3\site-packages
        ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
        ```bash
        export SOFA_ROOT=PATH_TO_SOFA_ROBOTICS_DIR
        export PATH=$PATH:$SOFA_ROOT\bin
        ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Launch the Software

> In the same terminal, try the following command: `runSofa -l SofaPython3,SofaImGui`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the same terminal, try the following command: 

<Tabs className="unique-tabs">
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
      runSofa -l SofaPython3,SofaImGui
      ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">
      ```bash
      runSofa.exe -l SofaPython3,SofaImGui
      ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
      ```bash
      runSofa -l SofaPython3,SofaImGui
      ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

> This should run the SOFA Robotics with a default simulation (press the play button). To run your own simulation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should run the SOFA Robotics with a default simulation (press the play button). 

To run your own simulation:
```
